## Possible Projects for CS1980/CS1640/BIOSC1640 Students

Please file your top THREE choices as an issue (will go over in class) by Wednesday (6 Sep) morning at 11:59 AM (i.e., right before noon).  Please list them in the order that you prefer them.  You will be informed as to your project during the next Capstone class on Friday 8 Sep.  If you do not file an issue by then, I will assume you do not care which project you are on and I will place uncommitted students on whichever projects still need people.

Along with your selections, please include any qualifications or specific reasons for interest that you have for those specific projects.   Remember that you are "interviewing" for the project against others, especially if you have selected popular projects.   Students who respond early also show enthusiasm for the projects, which goes a long way to showing that they actually want to do them.

I will attempt to place you in one of your top three choices.  Last semester, every student got into one of their top three (and a majority into their #1 choice), although I do not make any guarantees.

### Industry Projects

These are projects where you will be working directly with a company.  Note - if you end up on an Industry project, your course registration will change from CS1980 to CS1981.  This is an administrative detail and will have no impact on you other than a slightly different number appearing on your transcript.

_NetApp_: One of NetApp’s primary products, ONTAP, promotes the ability to scale for large enterprise storage administration requirements.   Although our software is designed for vertical and horizontal scaling, the horizontal scaling (adding hundreds of machines to a cluster) faces problems in requiring physical resources which are not always available to validate these scenarios.    It is prohibitively expensive to obtain/provision thousands of nodes to validate new features that leverage the scaling.   Most testing can be done at small scale, and extrapolated out for large scale predictions.  
 
The objective is to establish a framework that can create large scaled clusters in a virtual lab environment.  The framework would leverage VMWare products (e.g. VSphere Simulator).  Test applications will be created that would interact with the ESXCLI on each host to query information, and/or perform actions on each host. (POC: Chuck Heinle)

_Viz_: PROJECT "RUMOR MILL" - One type of analytics that is useful, but not often employed is a simulation.  The project would be to create a prototype agent-based simulation system for the analysis of "flow" through a network.  The prototype can be a social network and the flow can be how gossip is spread.  This type of simulation can be extended for other networks (disease, computer virus, zombie attack!) and other flows.  The system would load a network of entities and relationships (as GraphML or a set of CSV input files), allow the user to specify simulation parameters including how data is transmitted from one entity to another, and then launch a simulation run, and then provide the data in a manner such that the user can do subsequent analysis and visualization. (POC: Dr. Mike Bigrigg)

_Yelp_: Yelp will support a student team in building a voice UI against our public API (https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v3). This can be built for any consumer voice appliance (such as Amazon Echo or Google Home) or smartphone voice assistant (such as Siri or Google Now). It can be implemented in any technology stack -- the resulting design and code will belong to the students. Our goals are to tap student creativity in exploring new ways of using Yelp, to get to know a talented team of students, and to support those students in building something cool and useful. About Yelp: Yelp is one of the world's top web and mobile development organizations. We have strong internship programs in both Pittsburgh and San Francisco, and we hire lots of new college grads. Our Pittsburgh office is at Forbes and Meyran, practically in the midst of Pitt's campus. Our local engineering team includes Pitt alums, experienced entrepreneurs, and Carnegie Mellon alums. (POC: Dean Thompson)

### Faculty Projects

These are projects working with academic faculty, either at the University of Pittsburgh or elsewhere.

_Pharmacy Quiz Game_: A currently existing application, this is an extendible web-based quiz game for Pharmacy students.  Students would work on adding additional functionality. (POC: Dr. Ravi Patel, University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy)

_RxPedition_: Develop front-end and back-end features for an educational platform for a hybrid course/semesterlong game experience. Background: School of Pharmacy has a semester long course in the Spring semester for 2st year graduate pharmacy students to teach the various phases of drug development from pre-clinical testing through Phases 1-4 to FDA approval. The course includes ~110 students divided into ~20 teams and is facilitated by a team comprised of faculty and graduate students. The course is constructed as a game in which the team compete to bring a drug through the FDA approval process. The course is delivered as a hybrid course with a web-based platform called “RxPedition” which manages user/student input of forms/assignments/documents, FAQ between students/educators, messaging via emails, and educator assessment of student input. (POC: Dr. Ravi Patel, University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy)

_School of Education Qualitative Research App_ - The School of Education has asked us to help them develop a web/mobile application for qualitative research. The application would provide users with training,  instructional menus for data collection,  prompts to ensure security and regulatory adherence, and a data management dashboard.   To successfully run the project, I need 2-3 additional students that have a strong technical background as well as web/mobile programming skills. (POC: Leona Mitchell, Professor of Practice, Information Science department)


### Bioinformatics-Focused

These projects have a focus on bioinformatics specifically.  Preference is given to BIOSC1640 or CS1640-registered students, or those with a background in bioinformatics or a related discipline.  However, this does not mean that if you are not a Bioinformatics student that you are prevented from signing up for one of these projects!

_Geriatrics "Ring of Knowledge" App_ - Currently, medical students receive a "Ring of Knowledge", which is a group of pocket cards which include basic geriatric assessment skills that student then use at a series of 9 health fairs in UPMC Senior Communities.  The skills cards are a handy, quick reference the students can "flip" to on their Ring of Knowledge.  In the end, after the student inputs and analyzes key data points, each assessment answers a simple question:  is this participant at risk of a negative health outcome?  Most of these assessments are validated, reliable and available in the public domain.  Currently, smartphone apps exist for several assessments (PHQ2, Geriatric Depression Scale, Confusion Assessment Method).   My vision of this project would be to develop an electronically based Ring of Knowledge with the following features:  one-stop geriatric assessment app (similar to a collection of different medical calculators like Med Calc) where learner hovers over a list of assessments, clicks to open one up, enters the data requested in that assessment, then clicks "Complete Assessment" or "Calculate" to generate a response of "At risk for _____" or "Not currently at risk for ______ (assessment)." (POC: Dr. Rollin Wright, UPMC Department of Geriatrics)

_Online IBD Assessment Tool_ - We would like to develop a personalized online assessment tool and application regarding preventive care recommendations for patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Our goal would be to create an assessment based on a few simple questions: age, immunosuppression use and type, and risk factors for meningococcal (military, college students). After answering these questions, it would lead to the generation of an automated form, the ‘IBD Preventive Passport’, which would serve as a comprehensive preventive tool, including recommendations for immunizations, labs that should be monitored while on certain types of immunosuppression, and osteoporosis and cancer screening. It would be ideal to be able to view the output on the application as well as printed out to allow for easier review with the primary gastroenterology provider and then shared between providers.


_Google Cardboard for 3Dmol.js_ Implement support for device motion control of a 3D view of a molecular model within a web browser using JavaScript.  1-2 students. http://3dmol.csb.pitt.edu/ (POC: David Koes)

_Durrant Projects_ - Dr. Durrant is interested in working on several projects, although they all related to data visualization and/or machine learning and Python.  If you specify the Durrant projects as your choice, note that you and your group may have to decide on a specific project.

* We're developing virtual-reality (VR) software so we can walk around–and through–our favorite proteins. ProteinVR will be a useful educational and collaborative tool. Students involved in this project use many of the techniques common to the video-game industry. Relevant programming languages include TypeScript (similar to JavaScript) and Python.

* We are currently developing a machine-learning framework to further our cheminformatics, structural-biology, and drug-discovery goals. This project involves Python programming (scikit-learn and Tensorflow). 

* We use the open-source 3D program Blender to visualize molecular models. This project involves writing Python code to improve/simplify these visualizations. Proteins and ligands are invisible to the eye, so visualizing the results of computational-biology experiments often requires modeling, scientific illustration, and 3D artistry. Molecular visualizations provide scientific insights and can serve as powerful educational tools. (POC: Dr. Jacob Durrant, Department of Biology)
